you're not willing I think I have civil
rights why do you think they passed this
law why is this a any any further
personal information is inappropriate
why do you think that why do you think
problem is it's m-city why I've been
treated very relevant for hours you can
cross-examine you can't make it go there
to break that look aside I'm so happy
you're going to listen yeah hey if
you're one of us okay I've been held for
like two hours and interrogated about my
relationship with my ex-wife and my
relationship with my mother okay and
that's a violation of my civil rights
okay under Canadian law under Canadian
law this is the law in Canada the last
time I took a complaint to CBS a yeah
they told me specifically I do have the
right to film you I do it varies from
all of the stuff unlike other countries
but you can that is partly so that film
a that's not were debating I'm not the
minors to come in and fill me I prefer
you not to but you can okay so there's
nothing he's now saying you didn't tell
me not to film him and you told he's
totally be bad those feeling that he
never said you know let's get so video
had it done all right thank you thank
you for theirs when I talk to higher
levels the organization yeah they told
me care code that one of the very few
civil rights I have is to record these
interaction okay because there's no
other oversight over cpsf okay but
little thanks your time doing you went
over there all right what questions were
asked don't though I was asked questions
I put my personal I let me finish
I thought that was just don't see us
hurt like you don't start a conversation
with an officer that hasn't dealt with
you let's go bro
legislation about what you can get asked
or not right with all the respect you
had a baby you know let me think
right you had an issue with an officer
there no I wouldn't say so okay I didn't
ice right no point did I say you I had
an issue with an officer okay wasn't
okay so what's the problem well the
problem is that in Canada okay under the
law after you identify yourself as a
Canadian citizen if you have something
like a passport or equipment there no
further questioning is appropriate
you're a supervisor yeah and you're
unaware of what the law is I am very
aware with the lies and I know what I
can I'm you're holding it here not
listen I'm holding it in my hands right
here are you gonna listen can I finish
my thought happy to listen can your snow
any age right now they just stopped it
again do I look at her age as a Canadian
citizen by law you're allowed to enter
in Canada am i right actually yes right
is that true correct correct
but when they ask you questions about
your travel to different area of the
world they may be asking you questions
to assess risk about the goods you have
in your possession today good did you
did you get a universe degree for dings
3 oh am i answering those kind of work
do you want to disc it so I stated
political science ok all right I
understand the way the law works ok
there's a constitution there's a law
okay and then there's a guideline okay
we didn't do everything you've just said
to me is contrary to both the law and
the guideline okay now with all you
simply it's quite likely the staff here
maybe they only heard the guideline at
the time when they first got their
training definitely first we're prepared
in the job and they haven't heard your
fears there may be some reason what's
wrong with you me still having like oh
okay I'm sorry
they can ask you questions whether you
have the right to refuse to answer yes
okay right like for nationals so that's
that's the way you have that right right
that's your interpretation if I saw it
but what the actual law says is it's a
quite right here for you
it is not appropriate for Border
Services to elicit further personal
information from kids isn't what's
personal information what were you asked
oh I'm asked all kinds of things what's
personal okay what was i studying was
that the duration of the course your
personal information I've also been
asked about my girlfriend and my
relation with my mom I'm asked all kinds
of support where you asked
under yeah I just being water when you
asked here I was asked about what I was
studying and how many months the course
wasn't so on I said I'm sorry with all
due respect under anaphor okay unifor is
what government CBSA okay yeah CBS
answers to parliament period how many
hours no intermediary how many acts
re-enforces that's one act right no it's
not I can tell you what the document is
I can answer that question this is si no
this is explaining to you the difference
between how you treat foreign nationals
Canadian citizens the second part that
you have not accepted is that we also
handle the customs out that really led
to theirs in relation to your goods
right I've read all that too so when the
officers asked you questions but they're
mitigating risk regarding your goods and
if you're unwilling to answer those
questions that's fine you're not
obligated to answer any questions by an
officer because your Canadian citizen so
one funny clarification I want to add is
you'll notice that in keeps insinuating
that he has the right to ask me the
questions but I have the right to remain
silent
that's what a lot of people think based
on watching American television but
that's not actually the law in Canada
what the law in Canada says is that it
is inappropriate for him to ask you the
question that's fundamentally different
from saying well they can ask all the
questions they want and I have the right
I can sit there and say no I choose
drumset that's not what the law stands
so in terms of what your civil rights
are and how to know when they're being
violated this is a distinction with the
difference I think you're in for a shock
if you take the kind of see what enf
says okay like we're not gonna go you're
not willing I think I have civil rights
why do you think that passed this law
why is it say any any further personal
information isn't appropriate why do you
think the boys think problem is it
sensitive why
agree to disagree you have your own way
of dealing with it and I am telling you
what our so processes so let me ask you
know when you read this question when
you read this statement yeah it is not
appropriate to elicit further personal
information are you doing this statement
right I'm not so therefore if I am asked
about my relationship with my mother
sure that's CNF for if I'm asked for the
information about my relation with my
mother or my
girlfriend or you know anything along
these lines so you more or less the same
wording appears again again page after
page in uniform it workers again and
again to remind you okay no it's not
you're not okay here listen can I go
this you're gonna I mean completely
happy to listen to everything I'm
completely I would list there's two
things right so immigration refugee
Protection Act your Canadian citizen
right once I formulated in my mind that
your Canadians is right I will not
question where are you regarding
anything regarding your entry into
Canada as a lawful citizen right right
when we look at your goods like we have
that's a different Act right so we're
asking you questions to mitigate risk
but what you have in your possession
that you're bringing back into Canada
the last time I went through a situation
like this they tried to use the same
excuse rationale being
any questions that are related to the
contents of your package but then they
justify any questions whatsoever
including questions about your mom your
ex-wife's what you do like they can ask
questions or haul it because supposedly
it's all related to your package now it
will be a very different situation if
that were true legally right if that
were the law that might be an
interesting game we could play we don't
live out of those rules but that is not
what the law says just put that down so
my question to you why would I ask your
questions ago my relationship with my
mother my relation with my girlfriend
questions your eyes I know you don't
tell me what question I did I've told
absolutely peeling so what did I say you
say I don't list hasn't there okay so
you say you say that I don't listen but
this is an example of you know losing
you last us three times okay that's why
laughing over the question no now she's
at my office right
so does this ring a bell I told you I
was asked about what I studied okay how
long the course lasted okay let's set
her always asked question so you don't
think she's trying to mitigate risk with
your good possibly know where does he
know I think this law was written we're
just working for reason I think I think
the fact that I don't have to ask any
answer any further questions as soon as
I've proven that I'm consistent I think
that really means something okay I think
you guys are really forgotten that
Parliament passed laws that the way you
treat Canadian citizens supposed to be
utterly different from I've been all
over the world
okay nowhere on earth am i treated worse
than I can visit on how I've been
treated very verbal every note for hours
you can cross-examine you can't make it
great that aside I'm so happy you're
going to listen yeah hey if you're one
of us okay I've been held for like two
hours and interrogated I've got my
relationship with my ex-wife and my
relationship with my mother and that's a
violation of my civil rights okay I've
had my completely lawful boring
possessions taken away from me destroyed
I've had wrapped presents opened all
which is again contrary enough for no
reason other than intimate recipe that
is never hatch me as a foreigner it's
never happened in Cambodia okay it's
never happened in communist China that's
never happened in communist Laos I've
traveled all over the world a morganatic
interviewers Canada treats me worse so I
looked into what are my civil rights and
I'm shocked to find out I have
we have some really important civil
rights in Canada okay but people who
work of water services don't what seems
quite say look I'm happy to answer the
question conversationally where are you
coming from what was your how was your
trip just on the level conversation yeah
look if you're gonna ask me a personal
question we can we have that comically
so I can assess your risk yeah because
you okay this and fair enough look let's
get through this okay yeah do you want
to be here all day with me oh absolutely
I got busy you know what I would love it
for you to sign for you to violate my
civil rights more I would love it cuz
I've dated this woman's don't persecuted
by CPS same person but no you're not do
this okay but what am I suppose my civil
rights are channel and my way personally
I don't know where the question mr. Merz
argh yeah sure I don't disrespect okay
but listen like like I have work to do
right and talk to you what's the moral
of the story here
Yeah right they had no officer right to
question community right
they weren't able to let me finish stop
right right that's fine you can do that
but apparently I can't let me finish I
think you were being referred and
they're going to talk to you mitigate
the risk and then cut you loose if there
was no concerns but you got into a
conversation with her about this law
right right where was I don't want to
question what person what that's I don't
want to that's fine but they still
haven't gotten to the end right they
haven't been able to ask you questions
to mitigating the rest no wearing in a
for did I see my punishment what I'm
afraid I throw away my civil rights
that's what I'm afraid of how are your
civil rights being thrown away but this
document describing silver and I've
asked you where in the EDF documents
maybe not be EDF for where does it
describe the procedures arguable this
kind of question so we're done okay yeah
so I don't think you know I don't think
you've ever looked at okay didn't think
what you like
okay gian think sincerely there's any
wearing an app that describes the
procedure you're describing yell cuz
I've read the document I don't see
anything like that I see that it's
unlawful as far as I know into Kineo
what you're sure I completely well I'm
telling you right now I know it's
business as usual mitigate the risk with
you right now and you're gonna go into
second your no you're not all that
this is a fair way declaration I know
that's best as usual in Canada but I
told you so you said I know ENFP 83 you
said that you know enough there's 90 so
can you tell me is there a section if
you have to discuss that there's a
better than you do
he keeps suggesting that there's some
other act that you know defines the
procedure is following what enf is is a
summary of all of the acts of bonds so
that they know what to do in practice
that's normally called a guideline in
Canada well look see again I can answer
these questions but do I have to in
terms of my civil rights
I mean I can I can break down when I'm
doing it I want you can just tell me
were you there for school for many
months or what were you working there
this point why do I have civil rights
you know if you say to someone you have
the right or in telling you just said I
don't dance these questions so do I have
to answer them or not because I say I've
had the experience of being held for
hours but if you don't mean like
midnight and 2:00 a.m. okay no I have
never seen in enf any description the
person described I don't see anything
like that so the ironic Dinu mole into
that story I'm still here on the airport
in front of these fabulous quasi
religious statues the funny irony to the
story is I'm sent to so-called secondary
secondary processing and I talk to like
three people there and they're like the
nicest guys I've ever dealt with
poker services just you may have this
really great conversation which I didn't
record as you can see like you know the
guys just go yeah how long you've been
learning Chinese one of the guys he
himself had tried learning Chinese and
gave up and I was like no you know
learning Chinese can take you 10 years
he was like yep that's the truth he
asked me about my trip to Greece okay
they did they didn't even search my bags
they didn't search my bags that it
across to me they didn't ask any
inappropriate questions about my
relationship with my mother or my
ex-wife or my daughter
it was perfect it was the epitome of
professionalism and it was a really
friendly positive experience so
you know in some ways I wish I'd
recorded it but of course if I had the
camera it was recording it probably they
would have been freaked out and it
wouldn't have been quite as nice and
experienced probably it's too old and
pretty fresh too though so they go takes
all sorts man but civil rights exist for
a reason rule of law exists for a reason
if you think it doesn't why do you think
we have that law in first place
[Music]